Now let us look at some of the
basic commands used to create
and manage user accounts in Linux.
The first command we will look at
is the useradd command.
This is the command used by
the system administrators
to create a new local user in the system,
such as the user for Bob.
The simplest way to do this is
to use the command useradd,
followed by the name of the user as an argument.
In this case, a new user
called Bob has been created
with a system-generated UID and GID.
It will set the home directory for
Bob under the /home directory
and default to /bin/sh as the default shell.
To set the password for Bob,
use the passwd command,
followed by the username, which is Bob.
Please, note that both these commands,
useradd and passwd,
need to be running as root.
Once logged into the system,
the user can check the user ID
by running the 'whoami' command.
The user can change their own password
from the shell by running the passwd
command without arguments.
What we have seen so far in the example
is using the useradd without any options.
Here are some of the common options
used with this command,
-c can be used for custom comments,
-d to specify a home directory path,
-e to specify the account expiration date,
-u, and -g to specify custom UID
and GID respectively.
The dash -G can be used to add the user
being created to multiple secondary groups.
Here is an example where the user Bob
is being created with some
of these additional options.
Once the user has been created,
we can validate that the custom fields
were set by using the ID command
with the username as the argument.
Here, we can see that Bob has
been created with the custom GID of 1009,
which sets his primary group
to the group called Avenger.
You can verify the custom comments have been
created by inspecting the password file
and checking the fields for Bob's user account.
Let us now look at user deletion
and managing groups.
To delete a user account, run the userdel
command with the username.
To add a new Linux group, we can
make use of the groupadd command
with -g, we can specify a custom GID
for the group.
Finally, use the groupdel command,
followed by the group name to remove it.
Now head over to the hands-on labs,
and practice working with user account
management in Linux.